
🧠 The Agentic AI Tutor Architecture
The process flows like a well-oiled learning machine:

Input Agent: Gets the raw knowledge.

Retrieval Agent: Finds the specific, relevant bits.

Explanation Agent: Turns the dry facts into fun, understandable lessons.

Evolution Agent: Makes sure the student actually learned and adjusts the plan.

Step,Agent Name,Core Function,Why this order?
1,Input Agent,       Document Processing & Chunking,           "First, we need to read and prepare the textbook! 
                                                                This agent takes the student's PDF, converts it to text, 
                                                                and breaks it down into small, searchable ""chunks"" 
                                                                (paragraphs, sections) for the next agent."
2,Retrieval Agent,   Context Gathering (RAG),                  "Next, we figure out what the student is asking about! 
                                                                Based on the student's question, this agent searches 
                                                                the chunks created in Step 1 to pull out the most relevant 
                                                                few pieces of information (like a super-fast librarian)."
3,Explanation Agent, "Pedagogy & Delivery (The ""Fun"" Part)", "Now, the teaching happens! This is the core tutor. 
                                                                It takes the relevant facts from the Retrieval Agent and rewrites 
                                                                them into an easy-to-understand, funny, and engaging answer, 
                                                                perhaps using analogies, jokes, or even short stories."
4,Evolution Agent,   "Assessment & Iteration                    "Finally, we check the results and get better! 
                     (The ""Smart"" Part)",                     This agent assesses the student's comprehension 
                                                                (e.g., through a quiz or follow-up questions). 
                                                                It then updates the Explanation Agent's persona or 
                                                                difficulty for the next question to ensure continuous, 
                                                                personalized learning."
                    